cool recording so hey welcome to the
after summer edition of the dynamic data
and capabilities working group meeting
bi-weekly meeting my name is Pedro and
today we have a lot of new faces so I
will ask everyone that that hasn't
already done to put their name on the
list of attendees on the notes please
and next step is to ask a volunteer to
take notes does anyone want to be the
note-taker today I was the last one so
okay thank you it's just a matter of of
tapping in the comments and questions
and answers if people have them because
the updates will be should be personal
all right okay thank you thank you Jim
so quick run those runs of interest and
updates so they'd have two new faces
here today so I'm going to introduce
myself I'm Pedro I works for protocol
labs I'm working group we work on things
that make centralized applications on
top of EFS passports I try to namely
collaborative real-time data type
charities identity and capabilities as
the name so says then we can jump for
the next in line I think I am right
Susan
yeah of course I am and Rosa I work at
Moxie studio I'm collaborating with
protocol apps on some apps we tried and
developed a concept which was gibster
and which you go for discuss if I right
now the dancer an app that Salazar is
already working on to develop
development side and now I'm focusing on
ideas which is an app for identity
centralized identity cool thank you
next line is the other one play yeah so
yeah I'm sat on gear on Twitter my name
is Andrea Cruz I live in Portugal Porto
and I'm currently working on an app
called this classifier which essentially
is this utilizes up where you can create
comments and basically comment on any
webpage and essentially I'm working on
an extension right now where you can
install extension and the sidebar will
pop up and will open the discussion
where you can create comments edit
comments remove comments and so on this
application is using all the technology
that Pedro has been working on such as
be a star and so on and and also I'm
worried kind of working on identity
solution which is the IDM as and the
resources Toto told you guys so is
easily made an RFC and we are
conceptualizing the or creating the
concept of the the formation an entity
solution that I've set that's basically
it's cool thank you Jim next okay so
this is my first time here so I'm based
in Vancouver Canada and yeah I'm we're
going to be working on I guess pierced
our app and we're from trying to use pew
pad as to sort of exercise the library
and try to get pure pad working really
well as well and any all the other
levers pierced our happen Cheryl
working those - awesome thank you Jim
Jim just for clarification he has been
working lately in well charity stuff
mostly on the debt universe right and
co-author or even also a bunch of
libraries that that's underlying that
that that that party he did a demo also
but you can perhaps point out later and
a blog post at least and he is is I'm
very happy that is now joined us to help
us in this in this part is very
interested in in collaborative data
types are saying and also identity right
Jim hmm yeah yeah Thank You Dirk last
but not least hi I'm dick I'm originally
from Australia but I'm living in New
York right now and yeah I work at a
giant corporation right now but uh
eventually hopefully I'll be able to
work full-time on cool open source stuff
like you guys so I've been contributing
to ipfs particularly on the name system
and right now I'm working on IG is which
is like like a source code manager like
github or bitbucket and it's based on IP
FS and uses CR DTS for for some of the
new stuff we're building so I have a
bunch of questions for you guys cool is
it to be self hosted instead of you'd be
using github yeah yeah that's the idea
it's what I said decentralized manner
I'll show you guys in a little bit I'll
do a demo some beautiful Thank You Derek
all right so let's resume schedule okay
so alright
you can add the atoms legenda you okay
so let's go through our stand-up things
that have concluded like what briefly so
it's it's been a long time since the
last previous meeting we tend to make
this like bi-weekly but then we had a
lot of people on vacation intermittently
so we I think like we skipped for more
than a month so one of things I tell not
sure that told me in the last mini from
my sides J as Delta said it is library
demo which is a video on YouTube there's
also another video for a lot a something
that me another crews did when we were
at after D web summits on San Francisco
last month I released version 0.7 off
pierced our app which the bunch of fixes
and small small typos she's not yet
deployed on on on pure pads because of
some some pinning issues some new
pierced our packages so pierced art
react so higher the components for for
pierced our pierced our network
visualization and bassam that
formulation for react to the component
that that attached to no collaboration
and you can see all the network topology
is forming what's are the traffic and
some statistics on on some of the under
the peers that are part of that
collaboration also I think I haven't
told you this at least not much here the
bidding service is when you think not
for the testers but we went to deploy
somewhere this will increase to deploy
it in live this will increase the
possibilities of so the persistence of
absurdities so that you may people may
work differently in time but still being
able to see each other's changes other
than that onboarding Jim
working on pierced Olympus all right as
I said also two things that are related
to research or research grant for Vitter
mr. Cheng who is working on is working
on a lot of things on top of annotation
and charities or pura based strategies
that's in response to our RFP program
and we like two weeks ago his proposal
was was approved also students while a
candidate student for each D program
Adriana
so we also going to sponsor his thesis
starting on February and we were very
excited to be working with them so we
it's both of these research fields are
working towards the problems that we
open problems that we stated on to rfp's
which are linked somewhere in dynamic
pattern capabilities
working group and also on the research
repo on protocol apps University is
Adrian from is I'm he's going to study
he hasn't decided yet
which university is going to study in
Louisville TN but I know he was working
and studying in dragon Nia in north of
Portugal with Carlos back arrow and Ali
I think Ali shocker but I'm not sure
he's either working there's there's some
possibilities of very prominent people
that are going to be the code via the
visors for his fugitive program but it's
like not not in Portugal but most
probably but it's still it's early works
but this is kinda see is approved and
moving forward and perhaps will be
joining us in the future
cool so that's it for me I have some
things that I may want to work next but
I want to spend some time on on planning
yet so I have to define your we have to
define your cures for the next quarter
so that's mainly my my work for the for
the next few days
alright that's it for me let's go - well
actually I changed the order thank you
for sorry but I but I saw that you want
to that's fine yes I can start to wake
wake waiter quick so I've come to I've
concluded everything for this case if I
regarding UI UI elements and style guide
I also looked up for all the user
journey scenarios we were using for this
first MVP can you guys hear me well yes
okay gotcha
the user flows were prepared with you
for scenarios and block stack I've also
prepared the browser extension specs and
off for Salazar I've started and
concluded the UX for some scenarios
regarding IDM and just like for claims
and proofs and some scenarios that user
its - now we think progress I have the
IDM branding the overall look and feel
the logo type design both and everything
associated with it everyone some some
tests on the on the concept and look and
feel and also yeah and some some pages
some higher level of UX was already
prepared as well and for now that's it
and I'm continuing with question Pedro
can enter so they like have five minutes
in the demos that in the most parts just
to show some screens of IDM so that the
people here can make sense of what at
the Emmys and what eventually will will
become later on oh yes I was going to
ask them that I think also something to
show us hope
go ahead thank you okay so in the end we
also okay so in my part yeah concluded
so I've asked Pedro mentioned we have
been in San Francisco presenting a
workshop around pierced our library so
I've been working on that and concluded
that I myself I have concluded this
classified application authentication
flow with you parts actually left video
there on YouTube so you can guys check
can check it out so for now we're using
you port but later on of course we want
to be using something different which is
that entity manager which and the rest
will be showing some screenshots Mari
over I've been working on setting up the
discuss if I extension so I've I've
encountered a lot of issues with
developing sessions on on Chrome and
Firefox mainly do we do to it to CSP
which is content security policy and CSS
styling so essentially we can't have
like content working directly on the
page because we'll hit a lot of CSP
errors for instance pictures of users
will be requested but Chrome will
eventually abort the request saying that
there is a CSP a because sites are
some sites are very strict on theirs
policies so I had to get around that by
using iframes and because of high frames
I have to lift this tight to the
background script of the extension and I
have to use message passing to
communicate between the die frames and
the background script and for the
styling parts i abused shadow dom to is
like the style so that styles of the
station doesn't conflict with the page
itself so this has been a lot of
challenging for me but i think it
pretty nice solution right now also I've
been working in the like the browser the
ignition icon status status which
essentially you can click that you can
see the the status like it's loading its
enable its disabled and some in case
some a occurred you see an arrow
there and I've been working on you know
setting up the developing development
environment such as hot hot hot reloads
of the codes as as I change it and
compile it and that's it for this case
file extension and also I've been
working within the sorcerer on the
initial IDM screens that we'll be
demoing later on I also will show some
demo on the current state of taxation so
that you guys can see the current state
of it and that's it
thank you Jim you want to tell us what
you've been working on
I'm sure so it's just been my first two
weeks here I joined as on vacations
I thought I was gonna join the tent but
then they sent me the contacts that was
the third just start then so I had lots
of time to get really familiar with the
pure pad a code and pure star app code
under underneath it and I I started by
taking pure pad and I made a cut-down
version of it called pea pod Nano just
like they take away all the styling and
most of the react stuff it's just better
base for experimentation and I just been
sort of peeling off the layers and doing
lots of little experiments and finding
lots and lots of performance things and
things I don't think things don't sink
in that so I'm just sort of getting a
feel for where the where the work is
with that I did actually stumble across
an actual bug so in the CR DT so it was
if you delete a whole bunch of content
and then go back and then it type
something in it would like put it one
character before where it was supposed
to be so I traced it down to a little
bug and that's one of the algorithms
just needed an extra little loop to take
care of that particular edge case and
this is this is just really recent but I
read all the under is a deep
decentralized ID authentication stuff
and that looked really interesting to me
I was trying to pair that up with some
of my I've built a lot of what
syndication things over the years and
then I got one of these USB web off and
so Google's Bing doing real big push on
web off end so I wanted to try that so I
bought one of these little keys trying
that out and it's funny just after I
ordered they actually launched it into
Android so I could actually do it on the
fingerprint sensor if you have an
Android phone you can use a fingerprint
sensor and use the Web API for that now
so that that's really
so just these different things to play
with currently it works on if you have a
new MacBook Pro with the with the touch
bar it's got a fingerprint sensor it'll
work on that as well with Google Chrome
Beta so that's not interesting so I try
to think like how would that fit into an
identification thing I think like people
will use fingerprint sensors or face ID
on their phones or on their laptops to
secure their secrets and also web
authentic interfaces with the Google or
will all the web browsers they have the
password managers built-in so that's how
that's the JavaScript API for that so
that that's would kind of replace the
master key for in so in so you could
store private private keys on an Inc
laughs that will be in hardware rights
it's not really designed to be like
where they call a hardware security
module where you can do the encryption
on it so it's really only for
authentication so it'll have a private
key stored on the key or in your
fingerprint sensor or whatever but you
can't use you can't get that key out you
can't use that in crypto stream all you
can do is send in a challenge and it'll
sign it so it's just like signing only
so it would be good for it's very I
trying to get my head around it to like
how would it work in a decentralized way
and it's hard to figure out actually how
that's actually useful in these
centralized things you're already
trusting your local machine
yeah that's good for proving yourself to
a centralized service that you are who
you are and then you can so like that
might be a way like if we want to have
secrets you could maybe have an
extension or something these things to
store the secrets in the extension or in
a hardware wallet or whatever and then
you can really check them out and things
may be good for for personal
identification so that you can port your
your profile around safely yeah yeah
yeah it's definitely uh I could see
people will work demand this because he
it's basically getting rid of having the
need to remember passwords so that's a
really big deal yeah we need to see how
that's fits in the ID stuff because the
IDS assumes you know a public ledger
like a blockchain or something so that
we can validate stuff to check like
fetched the public keys and so on and
with an artwork hardware key or what
ours where was we that information on
lives in the in the device wiki and
doesn't block chain so you have to look
good to get around it but the finger the
fingerprint part is very interesting
because I mentioning that the entire see
that's all the information that is
stored in the app is encrypted with
something and that's something as a
bare-bones as a fallback is always a
password but we can you can decrypt like
your private key with your fingerprint
if they're art where and and the Machine
you you have supports that kind of stuff
so I'm we want to dig into that because
I have a Mac and I have like the sensor
to to the fingerprint sensor if it
doesn't decryption sorry
if it allows decryption is the gym
machine it was only for for Sonny okay
yeah I mean you can you can use it to
prove your identity do something else
that you're the person so you don't need
a password but then what is that
something else you know if it's already
on your local machine you already sort
of trust you or your so is a key right
yeah yeah
I think that the fingerprint parts which
is completely different but if there's
some kind of native bindings to to to
know DJ's and we feel we feel like the
the app installable as a native app the
fingerprint parts will be interesting to
decipher the equips your private key in
the IDM yeah - like Ithaca is 10 - to
encrypt and decrypt and so on yeah yeah
I think like there's like a like a
nodejs service it could be a local host
on your laptop it's not gonna work on
your phone but you know you could store
the secrets in there and then use the
fingerprint sensor to prove that you're
the person who's allowed to get the
secret out into the web browser so yeah
use that for encrypting yeah I'll send
you a link to the demo after you can try
it on your laptop sweet cool I think
Derek are you
well obviously is your your perhaps who
want to do two-in-one say what you've
been working on and and kind of shows
that demo style I'm not sure if you have
something yeah yep let me share my
screen here trying to figure out
screen here anything on this you the
bottom somewhere in the middle this is
how I said okay cool okay cool okay so
can you guys see that you can see my
screen yep so what we've been working on
is we call it ID is interplanetary get
serviced and so it's based on IP FS and
let me show you so there's a an actual
version you can use on a web ID is dot
IO in case you want to follow along with
this demo and I'm gonna run it locally
because I have a couple of local changes
so let me just find my local copy okay
so we've got a couple of demo
repositories in there so I'm going to
take a look at the go ipfs Reaper um and
so what it's doing right now is all of
this repo is stored on ipfs through the
IP LD interface so there's like any
other effects between IP FS and yet and
so all the stuff that it's retrieving is
going through that interface getting in
front of my TFS and then displaying it
in your local browser so this works
pretty much how you would expect you
know from github or bitbucket or
whatever I can drill down through
directories and then I can go and open a
file and look at its contents it's
pretty fast because it's local yeah yeah
so I actually I have a lot of stuff
cached locally but it's actually pretty
quick anyway I think it's it's
connecting to a server you know it has a
peer that has all of this stuff on it so
it's probably going to be pretty quick
but eventually once ipfs becomes
widespread it should be almost
equivalent to HTTP so let me show you a
couple of things we can do here so one
is a list of commits so for this
particular branch the master branch this
is going to loads all the commits that
have been made against this branch and
then I can click into one of these and
it's going to loads all the changes that
have happened in that commit so this is
kind of a crappy CSS style sheet of
blaming but we'll make it look pretty
eventually oh man I'm not a designer
this is a design by programmer
unfortunately then let me show you let
me show you the kind of pull request
functionalities nice do you have like
think about the placeholders while while
he's still fetching yeah I just don't
amended that recently because otherwise
it was a little bit painful but some
reason it's running a little bit slowly
right I'm gonna grab one when I prepared
earlier okay so so this is what looks
what it looks like when you want to
compare two branches so you can see in
the URL here
I'm comparing the master branch with
this branch feet core API swarm and so
it's going to load up the diff basically
and then all of the commits that are the
difference between those two branches
and then of course I can click into
these commits and see exactly what
changes were made in each one you didn't
praise to the demo gods yeah yeah I
swear to god it was working beautifully
a minute ago
fortunately it's a little bit slow but
once it once this loads it's gonna give
me a button where I can create a new
pull request
so once I've created a pull request it's
going to create a screen like this where
it shows all of my commits all the
changes that have been made and then I
can actually enter in comments so this
is the part that I'm using CID T's for
so basically this list of comments is an
IgA replica cool the rebel array and
that's shared across you know across all
the the peers so hopefully this is gonna
work do you have any kind of like
ownership proof or mechanism to prove on
the ship or on the comments yeah so
right now it doesn't but what I was
planning to do is basically you just
sign all of your own comments and so
when you want to make an update to a
comment
it'll each of the each of the comments
is actually its own RDA and so it'll
just add that update as another entry in
the RJ with your signature on it so that
when it comes to render tie and you can
just check that the signatures match
okay are you signing with with whisky so
we're working on the authentication
mechanism now but basically a user is
going to have a username avatar and then
a private key private public key so they
can sign stuff let's see if this works
[Music]
come on you'll appear eventually yeah 42
minutes ago this worked absolutely
you'll just have to believe me
so I think that's about it then oh I'm
also using some around here oh yes I'm
also using a CID t similarly for the
list of pull requests so once again this
is just an IgA so
there's a there's a few open issues
around this that I'd love to have you
guys input on so one of them is when you
have a list like this of something so in
this case it's a list of comments at the
moment each of those comments is an
object in ipfs and then the stuff that's
in the RGA is basically just a link to
or a reference to that IP address object
so I don't know is that how you guys do
recommend doing it or should I just put
all of the data in I'm using a similar
approach in this case if I actually each
comment is I should the same thing is
stored on I profess I just started the
CID and some other information so it
every entry entry is very tiny because
we could do a different approach a
different approach but it will be quite
complex which would allow us to do
pagination and streaming and so on but
eventually you know just opt out for
that and keep it simple but eventually
we want to like scale to thousands and
thousands of comments and this solution
that you have and that I have doesn't
scale to like 1 million 2 million
entries because it will take a lot of
time to to download the comments even if
they are just the IDS it will it will
take some time like you don't expect
like 10 10 megabytes of bandwidth or
bytes megabytes to be downloaded over
your phone just to show the comments
first to 20 comments so eventually we
will be looking into a different
solution but we didn't actually research
on that you just yet okay I think the
approach would be where you where you
want where you want collaboration yeah
you could use a strategy but if you
don't you don't want collaboration I
don't want to add it in multiple devices
you just want an app EFS record or if
they do that is small enough just embed
it in in the value itself
but for a man approach but yet the
nation is something that that they'll
have to figure out because right now I
have to calculate this as address I talk
about the whole array so that we can
display it and obviously that is not
very scalable problem I'm facing
actually displaying the the list of
commits because I have to go and
retrieve them one by one you know so
it's like super slow yes but but but yes
but if you just just fetch the entire
societies well yeah it should be not not
very optimal but it decides to be
minimal and then you can load each one
of them as required and synchronously
yes I think we discussed this some time
ago and I to be able to we went to
several iterations in several yeah we do
several different trade trade offs that
we can have eventually pagination
pagination will be like a tree like
structure I believe that would be like a
tree like structure which we we can well
perhaps a fixed size a tree with a
certain branching factor and I decided
that we'll try it right now we haven't
hit that that problem it's just one one
thing to be careful in this classifier
we the data model is not just at City
IDs an array of C IDs we start the CID
and some other info one of them one of
the properties is the size of the CID
the in bytes because we you don't want
to like be fetching a CID that is like
one gigabyte or two gigabytes because
someone is trolling and is you know it
creates that CID on purpose and you know
you you suddenly you are downloading one
gigabyte of data from your phone so if
the entry say is that it's just you know
100 kilobytes or one other bytes
whatever and it sign it you can
fetch to death amount of bytes and
discard all the bytes just one when one
small thing that we are going to
implement and perhaps who you you should
som like have saw something similar to
prevent some you know your interface to
be crap because someone is all feeling
outdoor disc because someone is rolling
in the comments yeah you only have
anonymous comments at the moment we
don't so everything is signed it's a
with with the you know the IDM part IDM
think cool and then and then there is
there's also yo structure I don't know
if you're going to start you're going to
support is a flat is a flat are GA as
you said but we have like the parent
comment or the parent ID comments so
after we fetch the wall are GA we can
have a view of that are GA that is a
tree that is not one other percents
popular because the said is themselves
contain the comments and the user that
made it and some other information like
the date and so on so it's it's very
performant see until you reach like a
millions and millions comments because
it will take some time to download just
the index I call it the index because
it's an index is not actual actual
comments but under I do you resort sorry
do we do the result using our GA or just
a little sense because I'm not yeah I'm
not sure yet incremented it but I'm not
sure I have some notes on that mara in
the document yeah GA if you remember
this lesson is like a few months ago
yeah a the client that dictates word
word insertion is you don't only our GA
well I could that could be but but the
RGA is not you can assert in any in any
position so you can just insert yourself
in the middle of history but you each
one of the entries is in a set and it's
loosely ordered and then you order it by
causality then times 10 so you order it
in a causal way that let you know that
this comment originated that comment
even if it's not in the same thread if
it's after so if we embed that causality
information inside the object itself
then you can avoid those types of
attacks where you bump your your comment
to the past or to the future I mean you
can again so it could be a causal
ordering and then yeah causal causal
ordinary because it will offer offline
offline so you can actually create a
comment that that is after comment and
11 someone else is doing that at the
same time and then you're off on four I
say week then your comment should still
appear and for those new other comments
after that at that point so that's
that's something I think to think about
there in terms of of how you you want to
model the the reality because an hour on
RGA
is prone to gaming right so yeah yeah I
I read the paper that you reference
actually by where with the causality
that you were talking about I think how
I figure this out I think I was doing
like I make a reference to the parent or
something like that yeah that that that
yeah exactly that's that's exactly that
you can just just do a depend on in
Locke and and and you can traverse that
from from naruto energy the others but
there was a little bit branching like
for concurrent concurrent comments and
those will commute so those can be
inserted in any in any order and you do
that recursively that's that's yeah i'll
be working on the data model in the next
few
like in hopefully Thursday I will start
it mm-hmm so I can show you quickly just
a very quickly the github if true that
and describes how we did this so so I
grabbed this and I'll paste it for you
guys
essentially this describes what the like
what the data model looks like
and I'd implemented using over TB or PS
RM and so I'll paste that into the notes
you can and then the other other one I
wanted to ask you guys about that I
talked about in a chat is we're now
looking at doing authentication so at
the moment you know anyone can sign up
it's just a proof of concept but it's
like a few different ways we've talked
about doing actual authentication piece
one is sort of analogous to what Jim was
talking about earlier where you you use
a signature essentially a username and
password hash of your username and
password which derives a secret key and
then that could be like an IP an S key
or an index into CID T or something like
that and then there's a couple of other
models that we're looking at one is a
federated model where it's a particular
domain is responsible for making sure
that usernames are unique and taking
care of authentication and then there's
attestation things like what key base
does where you can you can say okay I'm
the owner of this Twitter accounts on
github so from one system you can attest
that you're the owner of the accounts on
another system so yeah we've got a
github issue there and if you guys have
any comments on how you think we could
do this better or more efficiently or
whatever would love to hear from you
guys yeah I can I can leave you comments
there and I write the issue so as I
mention I've been working on identity on
sue Thomas identity if you have you
heard of the IDs and the idea of
specifically
okay the idea is decentralized identity
identifier sorry
which is actually have U star U star
basically HD ID it's a standard system
yeah it's a standard it's an open
standard it's not not something that we
have invented now nor like nothing like
that especially ID ID is composed by a
method and ID and the method can be
anything that is of like official in the
sense that is recognized as a secure
method there's you port as some methods
associated with a Tyrian and bitcoin and
so on and essentially you have used the
blockchain to store store information
that can be read by others but there's
no private key store there just a public
keys associated to an identity
so for instance I'm answering and I can
say hey here's my my D ID and you can go
ahead and fetch my public key to
interact with me I just need to prove
control of that public key so that you
sure that I'm the real and rare but even
then you you're not sure that I'm the
the the Android are using here because I
can be trying to impersonate someone
unless you already know is the ID before
in these public keys but you can have
one one or more so you have to have some
sort of second layer part which is
verifiable claims is also a standard an
open standard where essentially you say
heidi's d ID has one or more claims sign
it by one of the public keys that can be
fetched from the blockchain so you can
say hey I'm Andrea my email is this one
and my Twitter account is this one and
my Facebook account is is 1 and that is
sign it with a public key that you can
fetch from the
every five from the blockchain which is
you know unfortunally stuff you can read
it in in a documents I think I explained
pretty much it so that's that's you you
that's a self-signed certificates right
yeah kind of you can have like you can
say like 30 other stations you can have
for instance Facebook and attest to you
something your your National Bank can
can attest test to you something you're
like your social security number or your
bank account number or your address so
it's kind of a web of trust in the sense
that not the wave forms of trust it's
usually you have if you trust your bank
or you if you trust your social security
and you verify the signatures then you
can be sure that if you read it and a
test administration made by the social
security number about me
so you're sure that I'm the real and
we're basically but there's also self
silence certificates which you know you
can use the social accounts and on
social accounts to prove that your are
who you say you are because you already
trust Facebook and you already trust
Twitter in some sense but all of these
all of this is written in RFC I if I put
that in the sheds and so that's a Jim
pick and post it on the notes as well
it's doc matter is quite big but if you
read it you'll be like understanding the
bits of fits and where the decentralized
role is heading on in terms of identity
I've been with Pedro in San Francisco in
the inter distance-wise web summits so
the idea is referable claims and the
idea of was
like being spoken in in a lot of
workshops and talks so I think this is
the thing this is the where people are
heading on oh okay that's really good to
know thank you um yeah I looked into a
bunch of kind of naming schemes like
like namecoin and aetherium naming
service and all these guys and it sounds
like they're all yeah they're all trying
to solve a similar problem I think
there's still some pretty difficult
outstanding stuff there like how to
prevent people from squatting and you
know requiring that you have to purchase
some kind of currency in order to just
to enter the blockchain
that's this name that's a different
there is no naming here there's an Emmy
here so you just create a like a D ID to
interact with someone for just a global
D ID that you have for yourself and
that's a string that been resolved to a
document the document may result in
blockchain or by PFS wherever you want
depending on the methods and then that's
the string that that it defines me and
well identifies but there's not
authenticate so to authentication part
requires protocol which is the ID of and
that's that's that's more so a naming
like have like unique names and and all
those problems are squatting and voting
but it's on top of the IDs and all of
stuff you can have like a naming service
a service that essentially emits
verifiable claims to the IDS on behalf
like if you pay something they test to
you that username but it's on top of
that or any type of names and username
but ID is like a phone number so like
you have a whatsapp you don't see the
phone number you just you just see the
the name eventually when you have the
connection made so it's just it's just
like a name is something that I'll
handle or
I don't think it's something that is
required for most of the office systems
I may be wrong but what you need is this
is this is trust I think if you
if you read the first point which is
standards and foundations there's
basically summary explaining what what
we've been discussing here cool thank
you yeah my take on the idea is its it's
generally coming from the blockchain
side of things and you had a whole bunch
of different blockchain companies coming
up with their own identity systems yeah
they just realized they're not going to
be interoperable unless they cooperate
and so at least the D idea they can say
okay well we can cooperate on creating
these little identifiers x'
and then the buildin resolver systems
then that is that one at least one at
least one of these 14 companies will
come up with a or a system that works or
IP ID will be the one because there is a
method call ID ID which doesn't use any
blockchain just uses IP as public ledger
so that's where it's coming from like
you know that's you know all the other
ones are either partially centralized or
watching yeah but the point of deities
is actually to bring bring all these
identities or ideas and standardize them
so essentially from the developer site
you're just facing a data model that is
specified and this concrete and is safe
and and for earned future proof so that
everyone can agree on and work on
essentially of course you'll have stored
things using etherion and bitcoin and
all that stuff like a IP IP FS as well
but from the developer side once they
resolve the D ID document is a JSON
which is standardized so just a fetching
part or the resolving part as they call
it is like an adapter you have to build
an adapter to fetch from the different
block chains according to the D ID
method but there's also a library for
that so there's there's a library but
the problem I don't want to elongate too
much fun on this Teddy stuff I think it
would be the subject of
like a whole conference or something
that you just witness like a month ago
or something but this is like the
resolver for blog for ipfs it's just an
IPA fast notes but the resolver for
blockchain will have to contact most pub
for most of the devices will have to use
an Oracle because you cannot replicate
the entire block chain and this
aetherium and Bitcoin on your own making
or service it's like it's not yeah yeah
you have to use an external service to
which can be federated but still still
decentralized and and you have to trust
that that the security of that that
component in the system that's that's I
think that's the pain point of using the
IDs using Bachchan's
yeah I think that a handshake is trying
to address that exact problem actually
have you guys looked at handshake
handshake yeah I can post a link to it
basically it's a new kind of naming
system that uh that addresses that
problem where you don't have to run a
full node in order to approve claims
it's it's like creating its own
blockchain okay yeah it could be another
another message but if you think about
it's like in the future like 10 10 years
from now on you will see or 20 years
from now on you'll see like Asian people
using a specific blockchain see you'll
see Europe people using different block
chains will see American people using
different blockchain so the identity
identity and authentication has to have
that in consideration and I think the
dige spec is is correcting that aspect
because it's embracing and standardizing
all these all those different block
block chains into into one single output
interface for developers to calcium yeah
the the Java force may diverge this is
the case of viewport and other stuff and
also most of the time after that that's
the pain of I think of using multiple
different guided methods
but in terms of the the standard of the
document itself that's that's really
useful yeah I think whichever like if
when the blockchain vendors like really
wins they like they're gonna have to put
a lot of work into the UI aspects of it
and make it so it's a smooth flow so
that people can use it like people
aren't going to remember those di DS
because they're long strings in numbers
I mean it's user hostile I think it's
gonna have to tie into you know whatever
Apple supports on therefore on Google
supports on their phones in terms of
federated login type of things I think
that's yeah Microsoft's are actually I
think organizer of one of the organizers
of the Microsoft's actually unique spot
because they control Active Directory in
pretty much every fortune 500 company
has spent millions of dollars on the
Active Directory systems those systems
are never going to get ripped out so in
the corporate world the blockchain
people are in uphill so really like
Microsoft's doing the smart thing like
they're participating in the blockchain
side of things because that's the
biggest threat to them they want to be
involved in that so something starts to
wake up they can just be there and
probably by whoever it starts winning
but the yeah there's the last mile which
is they click the UI on this like it's
gonna be like how do you manage multiple
identities in apps and in your browser
Google's done a lot of work on Android
where you can if you log into like one
Android app you'll be logged into all
the Google Apps bridge that over to the
web with they got something called
Google yellow you only login it's a
really nightmarish sort of thing but
because they they trying to open it up
to any web page so people can you can
up your website and you can log in when
click with the Google account but of
course you can't like it's a nightmare
to have sleep or security have any
webpage you browser on the web know what
all the Google accounts of whoever's
browsing to it so they got the crazy
protocol and little iframes and things
yeah Cardon roll it out they actually
did something with open ID so I spent a
few hours on the weekend trying to
compile their stuff and it just didn't
compile it was all this angular mess
it's interesting that this they've
actually got the spec out there so so
they got the the Google one that they're
promoting which is still not ready for
primetime you still like a beta on the
es you have to prove your website to try
it out they talked about in the last
Google i/o but they have an open ID one
which has gotten no they've talked about
it at all but they've dropped all those
code they're an open source thing so the
block things like the ID and that could
actually use that we did the little
iframe thing so you could choose your
decentralized ID instead of choosing a
Google ID which I think it'd be really
interesting but like it's a nightmare
protocol very mind that's the IDM also
uses iframe to the crazy stuff so if you
try to do it this year like a single
sign-on sort of thing
you're fighting the browser security
model so it's really difficult to do it
is alright we're like five minutes over
over schedule can you press taste a bit
longer so addresses I can demo the
current state of a fire mm-hm
okay okay do you want me to present this
gasifier idea first because the shadows
aura has the I think fire I think
because we are short on time I think the
IBM part is better because I think we
somewhat show something the previous
calls
so yeah I'll show IDM then okay you have
to share the screen are you guys saying
my screen so first of all I've started
with a the icon concept for the for the
app it has a connection between
fingerprint the user profile and the
body muscles to end up with a really
simple icon that it's can be
retranslated all the concepts in in a
way so for the look and feel right now
we're using the yellow ship a dark path
Python it's something used on the
passports these kind of patterns are
present on cash and we're using as a as
a detail on some sections of the of the
platform the money as well you know yeah
yeah and the money also also to to
connect this with a monospaced font that
reveals a bit of the mood of the
developers environment and creates a
connection with the technical side of
the app so it's a fusion between these
two languages for now but this is a full
screen please because it's it's kind of
cool you see in ocean oh yeah like you
have a view you can put in fullscreen
the notion okay this is just a concept
for the home screen right now okay and
then I started with the Sun flows just
like the import new ID with IBM and take
a look of other scenarios like block
stack the restart key for example and
started with a model that accommodates
every step on the on there so you have
the possibility to import or even create
a new viewport ID use your twelve word
recovery C phrase with a icon associated
which is a tool tip to to inform that
you have those two
well words when you create the ID and
then you just type into the twelve words
you enter restored you can create a new
password that will be define it with
your new ID this is the partner I said
where you could use like a fingerprint
to increase acronym you clip the private
key of the you port the Newport key okay
you set the password we find you're just
importing and yeah it recognizes that's
you Steve Garcia your account was
imported on this device if you can have
an original one you can rely on the IDs
page that will be present on the on the
sidebar here on top okay let me continue
so the new ID will be created afterwards
after the MVP it's not needed for now
here we I'm going to present the how can
you claim a social account or in this
case the Twitter for example I've looked
up to how it works on eBay is they
create three options which is the claim
with a key is command line the the pass
+ c PG + c or RI which i don't know what
it is and the most common one in the
browser so i've draw that that example
you are on this page let me just have
the sequence you see it's not here but
imagine that you have a page with all
the social accounts you can connect to
and you you're going to select twitter
and then yeah the model will appear you
select your handle or your username and
then continue you want to choose between
browser or command line in the browser
so you're going to create a you unique
link to verify yourself you need to
tweet this after you did tweet you have
the notification that you need to stay
with your tweets up or you cannot delete
and that's it okay this was a the
previous version for the home page so
ignore it for now
when you select your ID you can see your
applications also here we have the
applications overview but there's a
there's another page where you can see
the social accounts which is here your
recent devices recent claims and then
the applications this doesn't have a
sequence because I've started with the
UX based then I just applied some colors
and overall look and feel but the
sequence is not done because that's
that's the next step be in mind of day
can you show us the dedication screen
this sorry the part where like pierpass
wants the information about the user and
the user authenticates himself yeah I'm
going jump to sketch maybe it's better
okay please let me know if you can see
it perfectly or not so a Jim picked
apart a term and this was a will show is
actually an authentication part where
you like are in pure pod and you click a
button lock a login button and what what
what it happens is that we create an
iframe the complicate with IBM which is
on another domain and use the
postmessage api to exchange messages in
this case what we will show is that
education screen pops up he enters the
password that he previously puts to
encrypt a private key and it shows a
button to approve and if he approves the
there's coming a communication between
the Identity Manager and iframe on the
peer path with that's the screen with
the information like the name the folder
and so on
all encrypted and sign it by the IDM if
you saw the previous screens on and I
can you go into the other screens here
where you have like the sidebar and it's
going to the left side you you have like
the photos on the left that's multiple
identities so you can have your personal
identity you can have your company's
identity and have your child identity
because he's underage
and so on so when you click getting pure
pad you click the login button to open
their can you go into that screen again
this form it will show the screen will
show the screen and here you can select
the identities a little drop-down in the
top and you can choose whatever identity
you had set up on idea your mind that
this just works locally but later on we
can expand that and made it make it work
on on mobile phones like iPhones or
iPads and so on Android devices by
having some kind of communication
between viewers like imagine way to
communicate between your iPhone and your
eyes or or an app that's running
somewhere and and essentially few proof
that's the device is correct by scanning
calcio doesn't like that like that you
can have authentication using using ipfs
to communicate and exchange messages
without having to run locally like you
can log in on your iphone and so on
but for now this concept jesus local to
prove it that it works and later on we
can add external locking afterwards I
think about it
okay should I proceed okay this is just
a concept for the profile page when we
are going to display the you party ID or
any other way to create ID edit profile
display the most recent that I was
telling previously the devices
applications and social claims so the
possibility to edit your profile just
you just go from this thing to another
model and all the models are created on
the same way that it's way easier to for
the website to create something that
requires action for the user so
everything will be standardized in that
way it's something books over the page
so yeah you can changeable the new
picture remove it change your location
with a suggestion
autocomplete when you're selecting the
input type your email and save changes
okay this is not the first time welcome
flow it's not to resist it necessary for
the MVP this will be created afterwards
empty states and I need to welcome it
and this is the possibility to see all
the devices that you use the ones you
revoke the ones you xx previously and
the active for example and yeah that's
it or my site or now there's also
another float that addresses I didn't
design yet which is the designing flow
line yeah which I am the cop here but in
the screens not yes so imagine that you
already authenticate on Pierre part
and Pierre part wants to sign something
really important so similarly to the
authentication model you'll be prompted
to hi Pierre part wants you to sign this
I know I don't know if this is the
correct human language or semantics they
are the somatic teacher or to write in
English but Pierre part wants you to
sign these and the pillow payload will
be fun
and you can sign and again you have to
put a password to sign there's also
another way of signing that is not
letting Joseph does it requires you to
put a password but is less stressful
because if you leave your computer open
and someone is using the application on
your behalf
you'll be using you'll be signing stuff
that you want because it wasn't you that
you're using so there's two ways of
finding one more strict and another one
more open or more friction or less the
signing thing is very very interesting
we've actually had people come to me and
say like the number one application you
want to see on this centralized web is
like you know like DocuSign or there's a
few other big websites like we go to buy
real estate you know the real estate
agents since he and friend and there's
like forms and forms and apartments you
just have to click on all these
different things but it's usually like
you're signing you're like uploading a
picture of your signature like and they
say oh yeah this is official this was
legal yeah
and then the real estate agent has to
pay hundreds of dollars a month for the
service and it's not even like secure
it's like this is the sort of thing that
should just be built into the web there
I've read but then everyone has to hope
to use you port or something like that
which is I think that's that's if people
are required to do that yeah so just to
summarise the Identity Manager is a way
for like websites require the user to
authenticate and to sign stuff in a
wheezy way for the developer side and
also an easy way an intuitive way for
the user experience where you you have
essentially an application that manage
multiple identities on open standards
that's not not something that we
invented is being open openly might by
working groups
I think w3c I think so that's basically
it and and I've written an IRC with all
the the entry six and all the specific
details about it
and I think that's what we gonna do next
after we have discussed if I working on
in terms of having the the least working
with comments and deletions and so on
and afterwards we'll have authentication
using this strategy I think so if you if
you guys have an opinion or feedback and
so on it will be really helpful to give
it up it looks really cool
yeah sorry I just want to ask so this is
something that it's like proposed right
you have an actually started working on
the development side I put a link under
on this yet so in that link you have the
second part which is proposal that
entity manager it's it's it's very it's
describing the in detail how the thing
works and and all of all of the details
so but yeah but protesting so in terms
of implementation oh yeah you integrate
you port in to discuss off' i and then
way you're going to adapt that into IDM
okay especially i'm using new ports just
to have an authentication mechanism
billeted on i will ditch out the ports
in favor of the of the IDM and IDM
allows allows users to use you port or
to use like bt CR or to use the one from
bitcoin I'm not sure what's the name or
whatever the ID method there is actually
there's like like 10 of them and the ID
has three I believe lived in the shed as
well so that link has all the D ID
methods being being like officio in
terms of the specification he's done so
there's a couple of B tyrion buys ones
and Bitcoin based ones as well and some
there's some others like on PFS as well
and sovereign there's one I saw a
sovereign I already said it yeah
so our goal is go one by one and
integrate it on IBM but on discuss if I
side on the on the pier bedside
everything
stays the same the developer doesn't
need to do specific stuff to integrate
with those CID methods it's just it
should just work out of the box so
modulus key revocation what modules key
revocation modules keys revocation now
everything should work out of the box
it's what was the key to clarification
issue because there there are some
intricacies for 40 verification on each
of the methods some supported some down
some are things I'm actually creating an
issue but there's no trouble getting
this complicated it's complicated yeah
yes cool thank you so we're running a
bit late already
does anyone have like one quick question
to anyone else no if I may if you have
like one minute a Dirk I would like to
ask you a question
yeah yeah about the reason I think
you're using orbit right are to be cool
so and the network topology that that it
uses right I guess it uses pub/sub for
for for gossiping around the CRT is it
for I believe so yeah okay you know what
all the nodes connect to each other what
what are what are what is it apology we
need your collaboration to be honest I I
haven't looked into it in detail I just
use it because documentation was was
pretty good and it seemed like it was it
was sort of pretty well forms but I
think probably yes our app is gonna
perform a lot better so yeah I'm just
curious because yeah that's one of the
things that that we are that we were
particularly concerned about on previous
iterations and that and that we
addressed with rest right here but of
course there are there are still issues
in educators I was this one I just want
to collect as much information on it
subject
let me look it up and I'll get back to
me no no if it's if you're interested
though we appreciate it
so also we'll have a look around look in
your identity thing and put there some
some some thoughts and links on there
but I hope I hope that the ID the ID
stuff is really interesting anything
else from anyone is this one minute if
you're if you guys can you guys see it
yes okay now lets me so if you if you
see let me disable if you see here on
the right is that this classify
accession I will enable it and they can
appears here and I will scan it I'm
gonna put pillow out of the the pop-up
it's of course we're using you port for
now but later on this will be IDM and
that's it I'm later on I the next steps
will be to implement actually discussion
on the page great that's beautiful so if
you if you haven't put a link to the
current report that you're developing oh
yeah I can I could put on the sheds and
copy that so there's two repos one for
the style cards and another one or it's
actually a colleague station I
the branch because the fool is on a
separate branch just a disaster just
some clarification right because because
France is dirty and Jim are not very
familiar with it so you have like like a
browser extension but if in the future
if website admin wants to add specified
to it people will not require the
extension that there's three face
applications one of them is the
extension that's the starting point that
there's what we are taking tackling now
there will be an embeds similar to
Facebook in both comments where you can
just put to sleep it like this that's
like Facebook you where you put some
code and there's comments on that
particular page and the third the third
face up is the app itself a website
where you can just put the link and you
your commenting there and but for now
we're just doing the taxation and that's
it it's a very similar hypothesis
actually we want to have annotations
later on as a feature where you can
comment on specific parts of the page
like the imagine there's a fake news
somewhere in a website you can sign all
that as fake news and never alt read
comments commenting on that specific
part of the page well any demo or any
other question I think it's more than
time that we close this one thank you so
much for coming
I'll be posting the notes on Agata Bishu
thank you so much for coming and
presenting a Jesus I think it's amazing
I'm going to be following closely
that's biggest if you have any any
question we'll do the same as of curious
out to you of curiosity out to you and
see you in two weeks hopefully right bye
okay thank you right this year